---
title: snapshot 2.0.0-20240128
authors:
  name: Phil Kaighin
  title: Rotorflight Team member
  url: https://github.com/pkaig
  image_url: https://github.com/pkaig.png
---

Rotorflight snapshot 2.0.0-20240128 is ready

 If you wish to become involved in testing these snapshots please contact us on the [Discord](https://discord.gg/6QUySXdEvd)

:::danger
This snapshot is not suitable for end-users. It is intended for beta-testers. Please realize that this software is under heavy development and as such there may be bugs or unintended control issues. Please test with care.
:::


:::tip Downloads 
#### [Download The Configurator here](https://github.com/rotorflight/rotorflight-configurator/releases/tag/snapshot%2F2.0.0-20240128).  
#### [Download Blackbox here](https://github.com/rotorflight/rotorflight-blackbox/releases/tag/snapshot%2F2.0.0-20240128).  
#### [OpenTX/EdgeTX LUA Scripts](https://github.com/rotorflight/rotorflight-lua-scripts/releases/tag/snapshot%2F2.0.0-20240128)  
#### [Ethos LUA Scripts](https://github.com/rotorflight/rotorflight-lua-ethos/releases/tag/snapshot%2F2.0.0-20240128)
:::

Please also read the [Snapshots Wiki page](https://github.com/rotorflight/rotorflight/wiki/Snapshots) for general information about snapshots.


Changes from 2.0.0-20240105

* Fix tail trim rounding
* Fix yaw direction in Rates tab
* Refactor config handling in Power tab
* Show Charge level in Power tab
* Show Realtime Load on the bottom bar
* Add Yaw precomp (lowpass filter) cutoff
* Move RPM Sensor switch to Motors tab
* Add GOVERNOR to ARMING Disabled flags
* Update zh_CN locale
* Add TTA Debug mode
* Add CMS feature flag
* Add Setpoint Response time and acceleration on Rates tab


### A few notes about the 20240128 snapshot

#### New ARMING disable flags
Arming is now disabled if there is no fast RPM signal available, and the governor or/and RPM filter is enabled.
Also, the governor mode 2 requires battery voltage. Arming is disabled if it is not available.

#### Realtime Load
There is a new Load figure on the bottom bar in the Configurator.
It is showing the peak "real-time load" in the FC.
The realtime load is the percentage of CPU time used in real-time tasks after every gyro sample.
It must stay below 70% or so for the FC to work at all.

#### Blackbox logging is the single most CPU intensive task in the FC.
Once enabled, it can easily double the load.
Please check that the FC stays below 70% with logging enabled!

#### CRSF Voltage telemetry
There are new options for voltage telemetry in the CRSF reuse.
Please set the ratio in EdgeTx to 20.

#### Setpoint Response time
This per-axis parameter replaces the old "Setpoint Smoothness".
It does exactly the same thing, but now has a physically meaningful value.
It represents the speed the setpoint will converge to the commanded value in ms.
It is important not to set much lower than the heli's natural reaction time.
The default is 20ms for cyclic and 15ms for tail. Most helis simply can't move faster than this.

Setting this too low will cause unnecessary I-term windup and other PID issues.

Values higher than the heli's reaction time will simply slow it down even more.
This is especially neat for scale flying, or just for the pilots preference.

#### CMS
CMS is now disabled by default.

There is a Feature flag for enabling it. This will also enable the necessary stick commands - BE AWARE!

#### Servo limits
Servo limits have been extended to 70deg, as requested.
As before, they need to be adjusted if the default value is not suitable for the heli. 