---
title: snapshot 2.0.0-20240218
authors:
  name: Rotorflight
  image_url: https://github.com/rotorflight.png
---

Rotorflight snapshot 2.0.0-20240218 is ready

 If you wish to become involved in testing these snapshots please contact us on the [Discord](https://discord.gg/6QUySXdEvd)

:::danger
This snapshot is not suitable for end-users. It is intended for beta-testers. Please realize that this software is under heavy development and as such there may be bugs or unintended control issues. Please test with care.
:::


:::tip Downloads 
#### [Download The Configurator here](https://github.com/rotorflight/rotorflight-configurator/releases/tag/snapshot%2F2.0.0-20240218).  
#### [Download Blackbox here](https://github.com/rotorflight/rotorflight-blackbox/releases/tag/snapshot%2F2.0.0-20240218).  
#### [OpenTX/EdgeTX LUA Scripts](https://github.com/rotorflight/rotorflight-lua-scripts/releases/tag/snapshot%2F2.0.0-20240218)  
#### [Ethos LUA Scripts](https://github.com/rotorflight/rotorflight-lua-ethos/releases/tag/snapshot%2F2.0.0-20240218)
:::

Please also read the [Snapshots Wiki page](https://github.com/rotorflight/rotorflight/wiki/Snapshots) for general information about snapshots.


### Changes from 2.0.0-20240128

#### Changes to the Firmware:

* More CRSF reuse options
* Fix CRSF headspeed reuse with EdgeTx >= 2.9.3
* Fix governor autorotation timeout limits
* Fix battery cell count detection with 10S and 12S
* Add OpenYGE ESC telemetry
* Add lowpass filter to governor feedforward
* Refactor MSP_BATTERY_CONFIG
* Improved defaults
  * Stick deadband and deflection
  * Rescue gains and collective levels
  * Governor filter cutoffs
  * Cross-coupling gain
  * PID error limits

#### Changes to the Configurator:

* Add OpenYGE ESC protocol
* Add Battery Cell Count to Power tag
* Add Governor Precomp Bandwidth to Motors tab
* Relax servo parameter checks
* Increase max yaw to 60° in Mixer
* Improved code in Status page
* Refactor MSP_BATTERY_CONFIG

#### Changes to the BlackBox:

* Add friendly names for RESCUE_ALTHOLD debug

#### Changes to the LUA Scripts:

* Aligned with the firmware changes


### A few notes about the 20240218 snapshot

#### CRSF Reuse

EdgeTx 2.9.3 broke the CRSF sensor reuse by changing the sensor scaling.
The CRSF reuse has now been refactored for better support for different EdgeTx versions.

There are now more sensors that can be reused. The reusable sensors in the GPS frame are altitude, heading, ground speed, and satellite count.

The reuse options are now selected based on the original sensor scaling, so that the reused value can be expressed correctly.

For most reuse options, the "ratio" in EdgeTx is a variation of 255.
E.g. 25.5, 255, 2550, 25500. (including RPM!)

The voltage sensors use 20 or 200.

#### OpenYGE ESC Telemetry

There is now telemetry support for YGE ESCs (thanks Bob!). This is a brand new protocol implemented by YGE especially for Rotorflight. It will be available in the next ESC firmware update from YGE.

#### Default values in the Firmware

Many defaults have been improved. Please note that you won't get any new defaults if you load a dump all from the previous snapshot. Probably better to use a diff all, which will apply only the parameter values that are not on default values.

Next one will be a Release Candidate, so please report any issues promptly!

Happy tuning (and maybe even flying)! 
